Marc, first I want to give you congratulations
because you have a spectacular
company, you are 25 years old, which
has an even greater merit and
you and your company have a future,
a potential that no one knows where
this will come and I would like you
to tell us the first steps of how
the idea was born, how it arises,
in what situation you are,
how it arises and how you take
the first steps in terms of
validating it.
well is.
That is, well, first thank you also
that you confessed in your
enthusiasm and answering your question
we at that time were working in
a consultancy, we were working
in Madrid, the SED is now in Barcelona
and then well, basically the
idea comes out of having
or that has user generated content,
they say that the user generated
content has seven times
more or greater power of
recommendation than what
is branded content, the
content published by the
brands, in their instagrams,
etc.
That is, we will do to explain
it better to our students, basically
it is seven times more potent
what another person recommends
you, another user in your
social age than the impacts
you receive directly on the
brand.
Exactly, that is, you have a brand that’
s called, I don’t know, Pepito, right?
If you...
The Power MBA.
Power MBA, for example, if you
hang a post on your instagram,
well, Power MBA, probably, imagine,
you will generate hundred sales,
well.
If that post hangs an influencer
or someone who is representative
in the sector, because it will have
seven hundred sales, it is
worth it.
That’s the increase you have in recommendation
power, basically because
it’s very natural and that’s been
the whole of your life.
What kind of soccer shoes did you buy when
you were a kid, what kind of soccer
players did you buy when you were
a kid and where did you see them?
In the television.
Now people don’t spend time on
television, they spend time on social
media, on mobile platforms,
right?
I would tell you that the example
of the footballers, we can take it
a little further to your case and it
is, not only of the footballers, but
the people you look at, your environment,
right?
At that time there were no
social networks.
Exactly, that is, before you, that is,
you could, for example, in the case of
Tonteo Empatos, you could buy the clothes
you saw from your friends because
you asked them because you had them
next to you, didn’t you?
Today that network of friends expands
to your network of friends on social
media, with which I previously
what I couldn’t do easily was
expand that network of friends,
because I didn’t see my friends
on TV, didn’t I?
It was more difficult to influence
me if I had no direct relationship.
Today, and this happens in Tonteo Empatos,
because there is a lot of influence of
fashion influencers, professional people
in the sector, but there is a very
good part of influence that is people
of the street, that is, normal people
like you, like me, who has their
context of friends, right?
Its micro ecosystem and will be 200,
300 people and possibly has proportionally
more recommendation power than
that that has a super professional
influence, which obviously at
volume level generate extraordinary
volumes, but at the level of
recommendation power
is also very important,
right?
Well, that is, we are telling how the
idea is born, it actually comes from
combining the social network with and
adding this...
A buying component, that is, is
like you on the TV put on buttons
and say this I like, I
want to buy it, right?
I see an ad of a car and on the TV
control I have a button that is to
buy and that would be fucking mother,
right?
That is what we do.
It is genial.
In the end, it is when I have the
greatest desire to buy, it is when
I see the product I want to buy
it, if I go home I probably forget,
I have other problems and maybe
I don’t end up buying, right?
And that is the idea.
This is the idea, this is the idea.
So the idea comes up and what happens?
Are you working a day, you think
of the idea or whatever?
How are the first steps?
That is, in our case, I think
it was a case, it could be more
particular because we were
for certain months, before we
left the job where we were,
because we were combining a
little bit of both, didn’t we?
We were working
in the company we were in.
How can you compare working in the
consultancy with the most demanding
workers in the world?
I know you worked until
11 o’clock, right?
And more and riding at the same time
in the company, I think.
It can be achieved by sleeping little.
It is the only variant you can play.
You work 24 hours a day, you work 15,
16, you don’t have to wait any more.
And, most importantly, I think it’s because
of the team.
For a few months, we had a team
already working on the project.
When you were there, you were
at the 15th.
We stayed there for several reasons.
One of them is because it’s a very good
school and then because at the level
of contacts, because it gives you, it’s a
bit of a trampoline, isn’t it?
It gives you a lot of contacts.
And in those early stages where you
need investment from business angels,
friends, colleagues, because it’
s important, isn’t it?
And also because we were
finishing each of the two founders’
projects and we didn’t want
to leave it halfway, right?
How was the first validation of the
idea?
How did you do it?
If there is something in this
company, in the company’s DNA,
it’s to test it all and be super
analytical, right?
This in certain companies could
lead to being a very unflexible
company, very undynamic, unfast,
etc., right?
But I think grace is knowing
how much you have to analyze and
how much it is necessary
to validate your thesis, right?
Or your chances.
And what we did, then, was a beta
phase of the app, very read, only
for iOS.
We launched the market, we started
testing first, i.e. some capture
channels.
We saw a bit of what ratio
organic growth had.
The minimum viable product, how
long do you launch it?
We launched it in two months.
In two months.
Super very fast.
A product that, that is, almost
behind it had nothing, had no backing,
at the level of, that is, had the minimum
so that we could validate,
didn’t it?
In the end, we were not going to be...
That interests me a lot, because in
Power MBA we believe in the philosophy
of lean startup, we teach it,
but we are aware that many entrepreneurs
are struggling to get out with
the least viable product,
for many reasons.
Because they are afraid, because they
are ashamed, etc.
And I would like to know, that you would
tell us how you got it, that is, when
you speak of the minimum, how much is
the minimum?
What does it look like now?
When, that is, it looks like in
concept, that is, there are photos,
all the buttons are on top of the
clothes, they can be bought.
At the front end level it looks like
50%, right?
At the backing level, how does
it work, it looks like a 3%, right?
That is, it has changed absolutely everything.
So, too, because when you need
to scale up a technology, you
have to change things, right?
And we have climbed a lot, with which
we have changed.
I think it’s important, because it’
s that if you can’t, one, you waste
time, you lose money, and maybe
that doesn’t work, and you don’
t have time to spin, right?
and yes.
Two months is really a success, that
is, in two months having the functional
application is a real
success.
I have to say that this
is Eric Rice, the author
of Instart.
Yes, yes yes yes
Well, then, you go out to the market
with that same viable product, you
place it in the stores, etc.,
and you start to have, how do
you validate it?
Did you realize very quickly that what
you had was very powerful?
That is, basically, we determined
which were the main KPIs
we had to validate.
One was, then, organic growth
rate, the other would be retention.
And once we had those major
KPIs tested with a minimum of critical
mass, we said, this makes sense,
this always combines it with
your successive round
of investment, and you’re
growing, right?
Yes, that is, you identified
the main metrics related to user
behavior, which was if you returned,
if you converted and returned,
etc.
It was important to see how we measured
those cries with the market, that
is, because you can test it, but
you are looking at incorrect
metrics, with which you are based
your decisions on metrics that
don’t, or market responses
that are not what you really should.
That has happened to a lot of people who
go out to the market and what they do
is, effectively, fix themselves on
metrics that are not the right ones.
For example, it is fixed on the number
of users.
So what you do, invest money,
capture a lot of users.
Well, but it turns out that the most
important metric is not that, the
most important metric is the representative
of whether they use it or not,
right?
and exact.
I think it’s important to look at which
segment or in which sector you’
re in, what is what...
That is, one of the ways you can
try to get that validation is
to make sure that they do other models
similar to yours and what they
value, for example, investors,
who are in the end experienced
people in the sector, are people
who when they look at your business
will look at it with certain
parameters, so, hear, look
at these parameters and you
will see what you have to get
there, right?
And that is important from the beginning.
We’ve always tried to put around
us very good people, who know
different things and who
can help you in setting
that path, right?
You talked about using metrics
that investors like.
I think I’m more supportive
of using metrics that help you
learn internally.
Because then, more than investors,
because in some case investors
can be, I won’t tell you to fool,
but investors can be offered
a photo, I don’t know, sweetened
by means of metrics as
they can be more absolute,
you know?
As they can be, then, is what we
said, the number of users or in
some cases the total sales,
but those metrics can be, you
can have doped them by means
of marketing investment,
you know?
I think the most important
ones are those that are
directly related to the
behavior of the users.
Basically, the representatives that
what you have is like them and
they will continue to use it, right?
Yes, here everyone, sorry, I
think each has to mark their
metrics.
You asked me how we can do this
or how someone can know what
metrics should look at.
Obviously, then, one factor is
how someone who will analyze your
business will measure it.
We don’t work to get metrics
for investors, we work
to get our own metrics
and that’s important,
it’s aligning the entire
company to those metrics,
isn’t it?
And the entire workflow of each
person within the company
has to make sense to get
those metrics.